Our Father in the heavens, let your name be sanctified.
Let's consider a few ways this instruction from Jesus benefits us.
First of all, it highlights that we have a role in sanctifying Jehovah's name.
See, when we express to Jehovah that we want His name to be sanctified,
we're acknowledging that His name is holy.
We're saying we don't believe the lies that have maligned His name,
that we know who Jehovah is.
His reputation is something close and dear to our hearts, and we want to defend it.
And Jesus is also reminding us that we have a role in sanctifying Jehovah's name.
Let's highlight that it by going to Isaiah chapter 29.
We can reinforce and see these words for us in Isaiah chapter 29.
And this is a prophecy, notice verse 23.
And Jehovah here is sharing this thought, says,
for when he sees his children, where the work of my hands in his midst,
they will sanctify my name, and they will sanctify the Holy One of Jacob,
and they will stand in awe of the God of Israel.
Yes, we have the privilege to sanctify Jehovah's name or to defend His reputation.
And we do that. We do that in the ministry by telling about Jehovah about His qualities,
which sets aside some of the lies and misconceptions people have about Him.
We also imitate His qualities, which affects our conduct, our speech, our dress and grooming,
and that too glorifies Jehovah.
But what is it that uniquely qualifies us to be able to sanctify Jehovah's name?
Well, notice back there in verse 23, it says,
and they will stand in awe of the God of Israel.
Yes, because you personally know Jehovah,
because you have a relationship with Him, because you stand in awe of Him,
you're qualified to defend Him.
He's answered your prayers.
You've seen how He's guided your steps every day, how He's guided the steps of His people,
and as a result, as you reflect and meditate on how He's answered your prayers,
and how He directs His people, it builds within you that zeal
to sanctify Jehovah's name, to defend His reputation.
A second thing we can learn is these words can help us and not give up in our service to Jehovah.
Let's go back to Matthew chapter 6.
And remember, these words, the model prayer was part of what Jesus was teaching
and the sermon on the mount, and before He got to the model prayer,
you notice what He was trying to emphasize for His disciples and for us?
Notice verse 1, Matthew chapter 6, verse 1.
It says,
Take care not to practice your righteousness in front of men, to be noticed by them.
Otherwise, you'll have no reward with your father, who's in the heavens.
And when you make gifts of mercy, do not blow a trumpet ahead of you
as hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so they may be glorified by men.
Truly, I say to you, they have the reward in full.
And He goes on to highlight that giving attention to our name,
or making us prominent, or trying to be too concerned with how we'd look
and appear to others, should not be our focus, as if our name is most important.
And after teaching us that lesson, then He focuses in on verse 9,
and He shows us what our priority should be.
Our Father in the heavens, let your name be sanctified.
So Jesus was helping us see happiness does not come from trying to seek prominence ourselves,
but by giving priority to Jehovah's name.
And really, isn't that what has motivated you to serve Jehovah whole soul?
It's motivated you to pursue a career and full-time service because you've done just that.
You've heated Jesus instruction, not to promote yourself, not to pursue something
to bring glory to your name, but to give Jehovah's name priority.
Now, how could this help us, though, endure in our assignments?
Well, when we get discouraged, frustrated,
and maybe we're having a personality conflict with someone,
or we feel we've been misrepresented, misunderstood.
There's been an injustice done to us.
By remembering what's most important, what the priority is,
and that's the sanctification of Jehovah's name,
helps us keep things in perspective, helps us put our emotions and our feelings in the proper place,
so we can focus on giving Jehovah glory and not giving up and our service to him.
We also learn that when we state these words to Jehovah,
that reminds us that Jehovah wants us to draw close to him.
It reminds us that Jehovah is the source of comfort and refreshment.
You see, the sanctify means to make holy.
And as a result, his name, his reputation, who he is,
is held as sacred. He's pure.
His holiness conveys the thought of being clean.
Now, for many, that thought of Jehovah being pure or holy or sacred,
may make them seem distant to us imperfect humans.
And at times, we may even think he's unapproachable,
especially when we struggle with negative feelings about how we view ourselves.
We may find Jehovah's holiness daunting instead of appealing,
that we may even feel that we could never be worthy of drawing close to Jehovah.
However, the truth is, Jehovah's holiness is connected with refreshment.
It's connected with everything that is good.
The draw close to Jehovah book in chapter three used this illustration
to help us see Jehovah's holiness.
How do you feel when you see that picture?
Are you not drawn to it?
Why? Why are you drawn to it?
Because of the clean water, the light,
it looks so refreshing to be there.
Then the draw close to Jehovah book made this statement.
If the same scene was altered, the stream clogged with garbage,
the trees and rocks to face with graffiti, the air be fouled with smog,
we would no longer be attracted to it.
You see, Jehovah's holiness attracts us because it reminds us of his wonderful qualities
which includes comfort and forgiveness.
So when we meditate on Jehovah's holiness, it draws us to us.
And when we deal with negative feelings,
we don't want to think Jehovah is unapproachable,
or he doesn't want to hear from us.
The opposite is true.
In fact, notice how that's brought out in Psalm 103.
Psalm 103, here David in verse one,
he says, let everything within me praise what?
His holy name.
I know this was connected with that holy name in verse 13 and 14.
Says as a father shows mercy to his sons,
Jehovah, the holy one, has shown mercy to those who fear him.
For he well knows how we're formed, remembering that we are dust.
See, Jehovah's holiness reminds us of his mercy,
his compassion for us,
is as if he's saying, I know you've made mistakes.
And I know you're imperfect, but I understand you.
And whenever you feel like you can approach me,
or you're overwhelmed with negative emotions,
he's saying, I understand, come to me.
Yes, his holiness attracts us to him.
His holiness is a source of refreshment.
So our words today, our Father in the heavens,
let your name be sanctified,
it reminds us that we have the privilege
to defend Jehovah's reputation
because we personally know him.
It helps us to continue in our service to him
and not to give up.
It also reminds us that Jehovah is the source of refreshment
at place we want to run to.
And we're going to run to.